---
layout: post
title:  "A simple journaling method on terminal"
categories: [tools]
tags: [linux,shell-scripting]
---



# A journaling function on your terminal

I find useful to journal mid-work on a terminal, so here goes my lazy solution

## Using a file

It was the first solution I thought. A file that has multiple entries, with automated data record of it.
Looks like this:

```
28/06/2023 quarta 16:29
28/06/2023 quarta 16:33 test
28/06/2023 quarta 16:34 lorem
28/06/2023 quarta 16:34 ipsum
28/06/2023 quarta 16:34 lorem ipsum again
```
**journal-function**:
```sh
journal(){
	[[ ! -z "$*" ]] && _journalentry="$*" || _journalentry="Empty"
	echo "$(date +'%d/%m/%Y %A %H:%M') $_journalentry" >> ~/Documentos/diario/journal.txt
	}
```

## Using audio

The audio diary, although relatively new, has already proven to be practical and enjoyable. However, it is difficult to use it for research or reference purposes. I mostly use it to record ideas that would be too laborious to type out.

**diario-function**:
```sh
diario(){
  rec ~/Documentos/diario/$(date +'%H:%M-%A-%d_%m_%Y').wav | echo "confimando arquivo: " && ls -tA1 ~/Documentos/diario/
}
```
The files look different if you look closely to the name.

>01:41-quarta-29032023.wav
>
>01:43-quarta-29032023.wav
>
>15:31-quinta-11052023.wav
>
>15:37-quinta-11_05_2023.wav
>
>15:42-quinta-04052023.wav


Did you already figured out why?

## Step by Step
We will go through 2 principal steps, date formatting and parameters with shell

### Date Formatting
I used [this](https://www.tutorialkart.com/bash-shell-scripting/bash-date-and-time) reference.

And by `echo`_ing_ through some formats I found what I wanted:

day/month/Year weekday Hour:Minute

`%d/%m/%Y %A %H:%M` `28/06/2023 quarta 16:34`
 
#### Second Thoughts
Since the audio journalings records a file everytime, and the system itself has a builting time stamp, Im convinced that the date formatting for that one is not necessary. So, by giving up the timestamp on the name, we can use a more clean and useful nomination format. Applying a theme or tag as a paramater to the script before the recording.  

### Parameters
The beauty of text journaling lies in its simplicity, allowing me to make an entry of a single paragraph or even a simple sentence.
#### And here it is how:

`[[ ! -z "$*" ]] && _journalentry="$*" || _journalentry="Empty"`

`[[ ! -z "$*" ]]` = any entry as a paramater
`_journalentry="$*"`= put the paramater as a variable
|| -> _or_ `_journalentry="Empty"` = register it as "empty"
#### and then

`echo "$(date +'%d/%m/%Y %A %H:%M') $_journalentry" >> ~/Documentos/diario/journal.txt`
We `echo` Our Date, as we formatted it, PLUS our variable, that was used as a parameter.

## Conclusion
In the end, all we gotta do is save it in our _bashrc_ (In my case, in my _zshrc_).  as a function.
Just go to the last line of your _*shrc_ file and add the _journal-function_, or _diario-function_, then save it and source it.

`source .zshrch`


## Requirements
1. rec on terminal
2. bash knowledge


